[#156] Update docs (#182)
serokell/tezos-packaging: docs/baking.md

You will also need to run the 64bit version of the [Raspberry Pi OS](https://www.raspberrypi.org/software/),
that you can use by following the [installation instructions](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/)
with an image downloaded from the [official 64bit repository](https://downloads.raspberrypi.org/raspios_arm64/images/).

### Installing required packages

In order to run a baking instance, you'll need the following Tezos binaries:
`tezos-client`, `tezos-node`, `tezos-baker-<proto>`, `tezos-endorser-<proto>`.

> The currently supported protos are `008-PtEdo2Zk` (used on `mainnet` and `edo2net`)

Reviewer: I think it's best to not abbreviate here... protos -> protocols

and `009-PsFLoren` (used on `florencenet`).
Also, note that the corresponding packages have protocol
suffix in lowercase, e.g. the list of available baker packages can be found
[here](https://launchpad.net/~serokell/+archive/ubuntu/tezos/+packages?field.name_filter=tezos-baker&field.status_filter=published).

> The most convenient way to orchestrate all these binaries is to use `tezos-baking`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most convenient way to orchestrate all these binaries is to use the `tezos-baking`
```

sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 37B8819B7D0D183812DCA9A8CE5A4D8933AE7CBB
sudo apt-get update
# Install packages
sudo apt-get install tezos-baking
```

Packages for `tezos-node`, `tezos-baker-<proto>` and `tezos-endorser-<proto>` provide
systemd units for running the corresponding binaries in the background, these units

> are orchestrated by the services provided by the `tezos-baking` package.

Reviewer 2: seems kinda repetitive mentioning the `tezos-baking` package here, maybe instead say:
```suggestion
are orchestrated by the `tezos-baking-<network>` units.
```

## Setting up baking service

`tezos-baking-<network>.service` uses `/var/lib/.tezos-client` as a default
`tezos-client` data directory and `/var/lib/tezos/node-<network>` as `tezos-node`

> data directory. By default node is going to use `http://localhost:8732` as RPC address.

Reviewer 2: Maybe make it a bullet list?

Reviewer 2: Oh I see you made the changing instructions that are following in a bullet list, but I meant the ones above.
```
By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will be using:
- `/var/lib/.tezos-client` as the `tezos-client` data directory
- `/var/lib/tezos/node-<network>` as the `tezos-node` data directory
- `http://localhost:8732` as the `tezos-node` RPC address.
```
what do you think?

Author: hmm, yeah, that looks good

In case you want to use a different `tezos-client` data directory or RPC address,

> you should update `/etc/default/tezos-baking-<network>` file.

Reviewer 2: Can `sudo systemctl edit` be used here as well?

Author: hm, no, `sudo systemctl edit` is supposed to be used  only for editing systemd files

Reviewer 2: Oh yeah :facepalm: got confused

sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 37B8819B7D0D183812DCA9A8CE5A4D8933AE7CBB
sudo apt-get update
# Install packages
sudo apt-get install tezos-baking
```

Packages for `tezos-node`, `tezos-baker-<proto>` and `tezos-endorser-<proto>` provide
systemd units for running the corresponding binaries in the background, these units
are orchestrated by the `tezos-baking-<network>` units.

## Setting up baking service

By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will be using:
* `/var/lib/.tezos-client` as the `tezos-client` data directory
* `/var/lib/tezos/node-<network>` as the `tezos-node` data directory
* `http://localhost:8732` as the `tezos-node` RPC address.

> In case you want to use a different `tezos-client` data directory or RPC address,

Reviewer: Similar to customizing baker key alias, I think this should go to the end of the document, into "Advanced" section (which should probably also elaborate on why users may want to change this - e.g. not having adequate storage in /var). Moving it to the end will get majority of users to a working setup quicker.

sudo -u tezos tezos-node-<network> snapshot import <path to the snapshot file>
```

## Setting up baker and endorser key

Note that account activation from JSON file and baker registering require

> running fully-bootstrapped `tezos-node`. In order to start node service do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
running a fully-bootstrapped `tezos-node`. In order to start node service do the following:
```

```
sudo systemctl start tezos-node-<network>.service
```

> Even after the snapshot import the node can still be out of sync. It may require
> some additional time to completely bootstrap. In order to check whether the node
> is bootstrapped and wait in case it isn't, you can use `tezos-client`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even after the snapshot import the node can still be out of sync and may require
some additional time to completely bootstrap.

In order to check whether the node is bootstrapped and wait in case it isn't,
you can use `tezos-client`:
```
I think would be a bit more readable in the rendered doc.

the key:

1) The secret key is stored on a ledger.

Open the Tezos Wallet app on your ledger and run the following
to import the key:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <ledger-url>
```
Apart from importing the key, you'll also need to set it up for baking. Open Tezos Baking app
on your ledger and run the following:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client setup ledger to bake for baker
```

2) You know either the unencrypted or password-encrypted secret key for your address.

In order to import such a key, run:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <secret-key>
```

3) You have faucet JSON file from https://faucet.tzalpha.net/.

In order to activate account run:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client activate account baker with <path-to-downloaded-json>
```

<a name="registration"></a>
### Registering the baker
Once the key is imported, you'll need to register your baker, in order to do that run the following
command:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client register key baker as delegate
```

Check a blockchain explorer (e.g. https://tzkt.io/ or https://tzstats.com/) to see the baker status and
baking rights of your account.

## Starting baking instance

> Once the key is imported and the configs are updated (if needed), you can start your baking instance:

Reviewer 2: There is no previous mention of config update before this anymore, so this is quite confusing to read, I suggest:
```suggestion
Once the key is imported and the baker registered, you can start your baking instance:
```

You'll see the following messages in the logs in case everything has started
successfully:
```
Baker started.

Endorser started.
```

To stop the baking instance run:
```
sudo systemctl stop tezos-baking-<network>.service
```

## Running baking instance on edo2net

TL;DR, in order to run baking instance on edo2net you should do the following:

1) Install `tezos-baking` package following either [Ubuntu](#ubuntu) or [RaspberryPi OS](#pios)
instructions.

2) Run following commands:
```
snapshot_file=/tmp/tezos-edo2net.rolling
wget https://edo2net.xtz-shots.io/rolling -O "$snapshot_file"
sudo -u tezos tezos-node-edo2net snapshot import "$snapshot_file"

sudo systemctl start tezos-node-edo2net

sudo -u tezos tezos-client bootstrapped
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <secret-key>
sudo -u tezos tezos-client register key baker as delegate

sudo systemctl start tezos-baking-edo2net
sudo systemctl enable tezos-baking-edo2net
```

## Advanced baking instance setup

### Using different data directories and node RPC address

In case you want to use a different `tezos-client` data directory or RPC address,

> you should update `/etc/default/tezos-baking-<network>` file, e.g.:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you should edit the `/etc/default/tezos-baking-<network>` file, e.g.:
```

```
sudo vim /etc/default/tezos-baking-<network>
```

> In case you want to use a different `tezos-node` data directory, you
> should edit the service configuration. To edit the service configuration, run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case you want to use a different `tezos-node` data directory, you
should instead edit the service configuration, using:
```

```
sudo systemctl edit --full tezos-node-<network>.service
```

### Using different account alias for baking

> In case you want to use different alias for the baking account, replace `baker` with
> the desired alias in sections about [importing](#import) and [registering](#registration)
> baker key. Also, you'll need to update `BAKER_ADDRESS_ALIAS` in
> `/etc/default/tezos-baking-<network>`.

Reviewer 2: The `BAKER_ADDRESS_ALIAS` seems to be left as an after-thought, I suggest:
```suggestion
In case you want to use a different alias for the baking account:
1. replace `baker` with he desired alias in the sections about [importing](#import)
    and [registering](#registration) the baker key.
2. update the `BAKER_ADDRESS_ALIAS` by editing the
    `/etc/default/tezos-baking-<network>` file.
```

sudo -u tezos tezos-node-<network> snapshot import <path to the snapshot file>
```

## Setting up baker and endorser key

Note that account activation from JSON file and baker registering require

> running a fully-bootstrapped `tezos-node`. In order to start node service do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
running a fully-bootstrapped `tezos-node`. In order to start the node service do the following:
```

```

Even after the snapshot import the node can still be out of sync and may require
some additional time to completely bootstrap.

In order to check whether the node is bootstrapped and wait in case it isn't,
you can use `tezos-client`:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client bootstrapped
```

By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will use the `baker` alias for the
key that will be used for baking and endorsing.

<a name="import"></a>
### Importing the baker key

Import your baker secret key to the data directory. There are multiple ways to import
the key:

1) The secret key is stored on a ledger.

Open the Tezos Wallet app on your ledger and run the following
to import the key:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <ledger-url>
```
Apart from importing the key, you'll also need to set it up for baking. Open Tezos Baking app
on your ledger and run the following:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client setup ledger to bake for baker
```

2) You know either the unencrypted or password-encrypted secret key for your address.

In order to import such a key, run:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <secret-key>
```

> 3) You have faucet JSON file from https://faucet.tzalpha.net/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3) You have a faucet JSON file from https://faucet.tzalpha.net/.
```

> In order to activate account run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to activate the account run:
```

```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client activate account baker with <path-to-downloaded-json>
```

<a name="registration"></a>
### Registering the baker
Once the key is imported, you'll need to register your baker, in order to do that run the following
command:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client register key baker as delegate
```

Check a blockchain explorer (e.g. https://tzkt.io/ or https://tzstats.com/) to see the baker status and
baking rights of your account.

## Starting baking instance

Once the key is imported and the baker registered, you can start your baking instance:
```
sudo systemctl start tezos-baking-<network>.service
```

This service will trigger the following services to start:
* `tezos-node-<network>.service`
* `tezos-baker-<proto>@<network>.service`
* `tezos-endorser-<proto>@network.service`

Once services have started, you can check their logs via `journalctl`:
```
journalctl -f _UID=$(id tezos -u)
```

> This command will show logs for all services that are using `tezos` user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command will show logs for all services that are using the `tezos` user.
```

You'll see the following messages in the logs in case everything has started
successfully:
```
Baker started.

Endorser started.
```

To stop the baking instance run:
```
sudo systemctl stop tezos-baking-<network>.service
```

## Running baking instance on edo2net

> TL;DR, in order to run baking instance on edo2net you should do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TL;DR, in order to run a baking instance on edo2net you should do the following:
```

sudo -u tezos tezos-node snapshot import --data-dir /var/lib/tezos/node-<network>/ <path to the snapshot file>
```

> Note that even after the snapshot import the node can still be out of sync. It may require

Author: This part should probably be moved to the `Starting baking instance` section

sudo -u tezos tezos-node-<network> snapshot import <path to the snapshot file>
```

## Setting up baker and endorser key

> Note that account activation from JSON file and baker registering require

Reviewer: I would prioritize (that is - mention first) information that is relevant for mainnet: 1) import key from ledger nano s 2) import secret key directly 3) generate new key pair, then fund + delegate 4) use remote signer, with details for 3 and 4 moved to "Advanced" section at the end.

running fully-bootstrapped `tezos-node`. In order to start node service do the following:
```
sudo systemctl start tezos-node-<network>.service
```

Even after the snapshot import the node can still be out of sync. It may require
some additional time to completely bootstrap. In order to check whether the node is bootstrapped,

> you can use tezos-client:

Reviewer: to check and wait if it's not bootsrapped

```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client bootstrapped
```

By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will use the `baker` alias for the
key that will be used for baking and endorsing.

> In case you want to use different alias for the baking account, replace `baker` with

Reviewer: I would move instructions for customizations like  to the "Advanced" section at the very end of the document. There is no reason for users to think about this, know about this or change this, ever. Of course there will be users who want to do this anyway, so... Advanced section :)

sudo -u tezos tezos-node config update --data-dir /var/lib/tezos/node-<network> --network <network>
```

## Setting up baker and endorser key

By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will use `baker` alias for the
key that will be used for baking and endorsing.

> ### Importing the baker key

Author: Also, I think we can move `Registering the baker` section to the very end after `Starting baking instance`

> ### Importing the baker key

Author: > There's a problem here now, as the node hasn't started yet the tezos-client commands below will fail.

Hmm, indeed, though, only `tezos-client activate account` will fail in case there is no node, the rest of imports' commands will just show a warning

In order to import such a key, run:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <secret-key>
```
3) The secret key is stored on a ledger.

Open the Tezos Wallet app on your ledger and run the following
to import the key:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <ledger-url>
```
Apart from importing the key, you'll also need to set it up for baking. Open Tezos Baking app
on your ledger and run the following:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client setup ledger to bake for baker
```

### Registering the baker
Once the key is imported, you'll need to register your baker, in order to do that run the following
command:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client register key baker as delegate
```

Check a blockchain explorer (e.g. https://tzkt.io/ or https://tzstats.com/) to see the baker status and
baking rights of your account.

### Using different baking account alias

By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will use the `baker` alias for the
key that will be used for baking and endorsing.

In case you want to use different alias for the baking account, follow two previous sections
and replace `baker` with the desired alias. Also, you'll need to update `BAKER_ADDRESS_ALIAS`

> in `/etc/default/tezos-baking-<network>`.

Reviewer 2: :thinking: I though I made this comment before, but maybe it kinda got lost between the other changes.

I think this should be right before the `Importing the baker key` section above.

IMO if one want to change the alias he'll want to do so before reading the instructions to import the key.

Author: makes sense

In order to activate account run:
```

> sudo -u tezos tezos-client activate account baker <path-to-downloaded-json>

Author: :facepalm:

In order to activate account run:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client activate account baker with <path-to-downloaded-json>
```

2) You know either the unencrypted or password-encrypted secret key for your address.

In order to import such a key, run:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <secret-key>
```
3) The secret key is stored on a ledger.

Open the Tezos Wallet app on your ledger and run the following
to import the key:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client import secret key baker <ledger-url>
```
Apart from importing the key, you'll also need to set it up for baking. Open Tezos Baking app
on your ledger and run the following:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client setup ledger to bake for baker
```

### Registering the baker
Once the key is imported, you'll need to register your baker, in order to do that run the following
command:
```
sudo -u tezos tezos-client register key baker as delegate
```

Check a blockchain explorer (e.g. https://tzkt.io/ or https://tzstats.com/) to see the baker status and
baking rights of your account.

### Using different baking account alias

> By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will use `baker` alias for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default `tezos-baking-<network>.service` will use the `baker` alias for the
```
